---
layout: post
title:  "gfy-cat webcomponent"
date:   2014-10-16 12:10:47
categories: polymer gfycat webcomponents
image: Kitten.jpg
polymer: yes
customResource: custResXGIF.html
---
Testing 123.

Awesome, this kind of works.  This is my first blog post, hopefully one of many.  In the coming months I'll be posting my experiments, trials, failures, and frustrations with using various front end technologies.  This is record of the things that I'm interested in.  I'm hoping that this will also serve as a platform for me to find others that are interested in similar things.

Initially, I wanted to put a few animated [`x-gifs`][xgifs] in the first post, but the box and the dragon totally hosed the memory.  That's where [gfycat][gfycat] and [`gfy-cat`][gfy-cat] comes in.  I thought, this might be a good candidate for encapsulation in a polymer component.  If you want to give it a try, here's the [source](https://github.com/mattybow/gfy-cat).  If you have no idea what I'm talking about, scroll down to see the more detailed explanation.

###Demo

{% include xGifCatsFlex.html %}

<br>

###Features

1. gif src or gfycat gfyName attribute
2. controls done with svgs
3. web component

One thing that x-gif has over gfy-cat is background transparency is preserved.  The cube is a prime example, its background can be transparent, but in a `<video>` element, that's not possible. 

###Details

Gifs--I love gifs, choosy moms choose gif, but there are several problems with gifs.  Performance sucks, especially with multiple gifs and/or large gifs.  No playback controls.  Not a new problem.

Common solution is to display the gif as a `<video>` element.

[Gfycat][gfycat] does just this.  It is a conversion service that also hosts the converted gifs thru AWS.

###Things I learned

IE and svgs

Firefox and padding bottom

iOS safari and `<video>`

IE and polymer bindings in inline style

grunt path

vulcanization

Firefox `<source>` inside `<video>`

 

[flexbox]:   http://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
[xgifs]: https://github.com/geelen/x-gif
[gfycat]: http://gfycat.com/
[gfy-cat]: http://mattbow.com/gfy-cat
